---
title: "Résumé/C.V."
layout: post
date: 2016-09-16 08:25:54
---
# Brian Boyko
### Full-Stack Software Engineer
* email: <brian.boyko@gmail.com>
* github: http://github.com/brianboyko
* linkedin: http://linkedin.com/in/brianboyko

---
#####Technical Skills: 

* **Strong**: Javascript Front-End, Node.js, NoSQL/SQL DBs & ORMs, Git, React, Redux, REST, jQuery, HTML/CSS Responsive Design, Responsive Frameworks (Materialize, Bootstrap), 3rd Party API integration(Stripe/Google Maps/Atlassian, etc.) 
* **Experienced**: Angular, Express, D3, OAuth/Passport, Websockets, Bundlers/Webpack et. al., Iconic, Cordova, Gulp/Grunt, Atlassian/Jira, BASH Scripting, Python 3, Java 8, C, 

---
##### Relevant Experience: 

###### Deverus - Senior Front-End Engineer

* Redesign "Swifthire" application to new codebase that is:
  * Easier to understand
  * Easier to debug
  * Easier - and faster - to add new features to. 
* Create new boilerplate containing React/Redux/Webpack for contractors to work from in order to maintain similarity in code architecture and style. 

###### Cycorp - Full Stack Engineer 
12/2015 - 6/2016

* Add features to React-based interface to be used in 3D edutainment game “MathCraft,” (via Coherent UI for Unity)
* Proposed, architected, and solely developed refactor of MathCraft interface which has enabled the following:
  * Reduced avg. time to fix bugs from days to hours with “instant replay” function replicating user experience.
  * Bug reporting, either on demand (one-click) or on failure, which creates a Jira issue & logs debug data to MongoDB.
  * Created tool for debugging developers to replay the application state exactly as the user experienced it.
  * Front-end issues can be linked to back-end issues via unique hash marker that is searchable in Mongo, Jira, and Splunk.
  * Created custom reusable compartmentalized code and components for use in other Cycorp programs.
  * Used Material-UI (and it’s library of reusable React Components) to design the UI/UX.
  * [Demo video via YouTube](https://youtu.be/7Dk1ZZq09mk)


###### Mayday PAC - Co-Creator/DevTeam Leader
4/2014 - 9/2014

* Mayday PAC raised $250k in 24 hrs, and $11M in 3 mo. -- (The largest crowdfunded non-profit endeavor to date.)
* Led team of volunteers in refactoring to handle unanticipated demand, eliminating outages.

##### Other Projects

###### DigiQuiz - 2015 - Product Owner & Full-Stack Engineer
​(Academic - with Peter Do & Juan Sierra)

* Mission: ​Create SaaS edutainment app for classrooms where students interact live (“buzz-in”) via mobile devices/laptops.
* Features: ​Simultaneous game sessions, store and retrieve custom game questions, track student progress, & jService.io integration.

###### Stacks On Stacks - 2015
(Academic team)
 
* "Speaker" - Modify fixed-schema DB to allow for custom feedback & D3 visualization. 
* "AmiGo" - ​Design MySQL DB schema, models & controllers w/ routing, and create dashboard for front-end integration tests.

###### Solo 36 hr. challenge - 2015

* Trivia MVP - ​Read trivia data from file, real-time communication w/Socket.io, enable multiple devices.

---
##### Prior Career (2006 - 2014): 
​Marketing Communications / Technical Writing / Marketing Video Production

* **Companies/Clients:**​ CacheIQ, SilverStripe, NetQos, ScienceLogic, Packet Design, Paessler AG, LifeSize, et. al. (more details on req.)

---

##### Education:

* MakerSquare - Advanced Software Engineering Immersive, Cohort #21, 2015
* University of Texas - M.A. Journalism (Fellowship Recipient), 2005
* NJIT and Rutgers University (Jointly Conferred) - B.A. History, 2003

---

##### Personal Achievements:

* Created a 23 minute [animated UI analysis of Windows 8](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WTYet-qf1jo). So far, 600k+ people have viewed it.
* Researched and [wrote book on comparative democracy by living in New Zealand](https://www.amazon.com/Importing-Democracy-Brian-Boyko-ebook/dp/B00G8TC4HY) and studying NZ Parliament.
* Helped get victim of malware, [a teacher wrongly convicted of child endangerment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connecticut_v._Amero), a new trial, through corporate blogging.